<DC=255,255,255>
<P><B>Paul Denton's corpse</B>
<P>
<P>Exhibit name: Paul Denton's corpse
<P>Date of aquisition: 2052
<P>
<P>Notes:
<P>J.C. and Paul Denton were among the only suitable candidates for nano-augmentation. There was something special about their muscles or immune systems (in addition to being close to human perfection) that allowed them to survive the debilitating effects suffered by most people upon exposure to nano-devices like the Gray Death.

The ability – which appears to be innate – to make nanites obey a human's commands by direct thought is incredibly rare. 

Nano-augmentation, a direct outgrowth of the research leading to the Gray Death, was mankind's first attempt to control augmentations directly from the human mind. In contrast, mechanical augmentations were controlled by crude sensors placed near the augmentations, which were used to translate nerve impulses and muscle twitches into commands that moved the mechanical parts of the augmented human.

The Majestic 12 scientists assigned to the nano-biological research project had their work cut out for them. Mechanical augmentations were just starting to become widespread. Nanites would certainly be the next-generation technology available for augmentations – but a number of hurdles had to be overcome. A self-replicating nanite that could interact with biological material had to be developed. The nanites also had to be able to interpret commands from the human mind, and to send visual and audio data to that mind in a form it could accept, layered on top of the subject's normal eyesight and hearing. All of these technologies would take years to develop.

What Majestic 12 needed was a test subject matching their selection criteria, and as young as possible. 
How to find such a test subject? The Illuminati – then in power, though no one knew it – had done a great, secret census between 1940 and 1965, tracking everyone who received a small pox vaccine. From this they were able to build a database of the genetic codes of nearly all citizens of the United States and much of the rest of the world.

The conspirators’ agents, posing as nurses and doctors, in pediatricians' offices and elementary schools across the nation, used the smallpox census data, to keep track of high potential candidates. The specialists in charge of the project were updated regularly on the progress of potential candidates. All the conspirators had to do was wait. Ma and Pa “Denton” – two such potential candidates – fell in love (perhaps even with some help from the conspirators!) and produced young “Paul” under the watchful, albeit covert eye of Majestic 12 operatives who played the part of friend, family doctor, neighbors, school teachers and so on...

When Paul Denton was five, Majestic 12 scientists determined that his physique and genetic makeup were the most suitable for the nano-biological augmentation project. His immune system was excellent, yet he had no allergic reactions to non-biological foreign materials in his body. He also had no predispositions to myopia, obesity, or heart disease, and he was highly intelligent.

The scientists selected Paul as their test subject. Now they needed to find the precise spots in his brain where the nanites could intercept neural transmissions and convert them to commands. (These spots are different for every human being.) They also needed to implant nano-augmentations in Paul's body and test them.

Since Paul himself was considered too valuable to experiment on, Majestic 12 scientists created a number of clones of Paul. These clones were allowed to grow until their brains (especially the language centers) were fully developed. Then the scientists performed experiments on each of the child clones, trying to find the “sweet spots” in the brain that would allow the clones to control nanites and receive information. (We should definitely play up the horror of experimenting on children's brains. Think Mengele here.)

For most of the clones, the experiments failed, and the clones were left as drooling vegetables – or worse. Many of these failed experiments were destroyed. A few were allowed to live, so the scientists could perform further physiological and nanotechnological studies on them as they grew older. (If the player is lucky, he may find a few of these clones late in the game...)

In one or two cases, though, the experiments were successful. These successes proved to the cabal leaders that direct mental control of nano-technology was possible.

Meanwhile, Paul started to grow up, blissfully unaware of the experiments being carried out in his name...

The Majestic 12 scientists now felt more comfortable with setting up Paul (age ten) as their first nano-augmented agent, though they still had many years to go before nanite technology was perfected. But they also decided to hedge their bets and create one more clone, who could be used as a backup in case the nano-augmentation procedure failed with Paul. They also wanted to give this clone a relatively normal childhood, which being raised in a laboratory couldn't provide.

Paul's mother, who was unable to have any more children but wanted another, was approached by Majestic 12 operatives posing as fertility experts. She was told that she would be paid handsomely in exchange for participating in experimental surgery that would allow her to become pregnant. For Mrs. Denton, who'd been poor all her life, this was a dream come true – she could have another child AND enough money to raise her family in comfort. The “fertility experts” assured her that the surgery was minor and the risk was minimal.

She and her husband agreed to the experiment, unaware that their lives had been closely monitored by the cabal for many years. Although Paul's mother believed that the surgery would let her become pregnant again, in reality the Majestic 12 operatives implanted her with a cloned embryo of Paul.

Nine months later, J.C. Denton was born. Paul and J.C. were raised as brothers, under the careful and clandestine scrutiny of Majestic 12. Their parents never knew that the children were identical twins born eleven years apart.

At the same time, Majestic 12 continued to grow more clones and test nano-technology on them. Prior to J.C. Denton's birth, this was a cumbersome process. Each clone had to be grown in the womb of a mother, so the number of clones the scientists could produce was limited to the number of women employed by Majestic 12 who were willing to endure nine months of pregnancy in relative secrecy. This, as you can imagine, was not a large number. There was another disadvantage: each clone was gestating inside a different womb, each mother had a different metabolism, and as a result each clone was slightly different. The scientists had failed to reckon with the effects of pregnancy on their clones.

Fortunately for the nano-augmentation program, technology marched onward. Shortly after J.C. was born, scientists invented an incubator that could bring a clone to term from the embryonic stage. The number of clones available for experiments grew dramatically, and the doctors could now perform their experiments with “control” clones. The pace of progress increased.

When Paul was 17 and J.C. was 6, it was becoming clear that Paul was a bit too unpredictable and independent for Majestic 12's tastes. Their leaders decided that J.C. should be raised in a more controlled environment, one in which the conspiracy's operatives would have direct involvement in his upbringing. To that end, they arranged to have his parents killed by a terrorist faction under Majestic 12 control. Paul was deemed expendable, and he was scheduled to die in the same attack.

To the surprise of the conspirators, Paul not only survived the attack that killed his parents, but also vowed to join UNATCO to avenge his parents' deaths. Majestic 12 decided to let him live and work at the anti-terrorist agency, where they could keep a close eye on him. After all, Paul might be useful in the future, perhaps as a guinea pig for J.C.'s eventual nano-augmentation. Though they didn't know it at the time, letting Paul live would be their greatest mistake.

J.C., now a ward of the state, was sent to a special Swiss school (actually a front for Majestic 12) where his development could be more carefully controlled. (This, not coincidentally, is the same backstory as President Phillip Riley Mead.) The school tried to instill into J.C. an unquestioning loyalty to his superiors and a willingness to follow orders. Although the conditioning seemed to work, J.C. despised the school's rigid disciplinary style and developed a rebellious attitude that he kept hidden.

Paul, who was raised to adulthood by his parents, was flamboyant and happy-go-lucky, while his younger brother J.C. spent most of his childhood in Swiss schools and became serious, bitter and a little paranoid. (Score one for Nurture.)

Although Paul was busy with his duties at UNATCO, he still visited J.C. as often as he could. J.C. worshipped his older brother: Paul the UNATCO Agent, with his James Bond lifestyle and noble cause. J.C. decided to join UNATCO as soon as he was old enough. This fit in perfectly with Majestic 12's plans.

Shortly before J.C. signed up for UNATCO, Majestic 12 unleashed the nano-virus on the world. J.C. and Paul were, of course, immune to the effects of the virus. In fact, their bodies were ideally suited to the integration of the virus nanites and, with appropriate firmware, could reprogram the nanites to perform a variety of functions. UNATCO agents approached Paul, telling him he was a rare candidate for an experimental procedure that would make him stronger and faster – an augmented human being without the clunky mechanical appendages. Paul had no idea that this offer was the culmination of nearly 25 years of behind-the-scenes experiments, conscious manipulations of his life and happy accidents (notably the confluence of the Gray Death disaster and the nano-biological experiments for which he’d been born and bred). He agreed.

A few years later, J.C. also became a UNATCO agent, and was offered the same procedure. He also accepted. In both cases, the augmentations were unqualified successes.

The underground shadow conspiracy known as Majestic 12 now had two nano-augmented agents in their ranks. A few more experiments, a little more testing, and the conspirators would be poised to fulfill its original, World War 2 charter – the creation of an army of unstoppable superhumans. Majestic 12 was closer to its goal of total world domination than it had ever been.
