<P><JC>MODERN U.S. HISTORY</JC>
<P>The U.S. has been through some changes as a result of four separate, critical events. Any one of these would have been manageable but taken together they changed the face of the nation.

The U.S. was as hard hit as any nation by the modern plagues. Disease struck down millions after the turn of the century. And then the Gray Death hit New York and a variety of military bases.

The same year the AIDS cure was released, a major earthquake hit the West Coast, destroying most of San Francisco and dumping all of Los Angeles and most of southern California south of Lompoc into the ocean. Some saw the sinister hand of conspiracy – or, at least, of scientific research run amok – in the disaster but no evidence of foul-play has been discovered. Regardless of root causes, the earthquake forced the government to declare the west coast (or what was left of it) a disaster area. Since then, the U.S. has teetered on the brink of bankruptcy, trying to deal with the situation. The country is still pulling itself out of a hole (physical and financial…).
	
With the government focusing on the disaster on the ex-West Coast, the needs of the other parts of the country went unmet. In 2031, Utah announced its intention to secede from the United States, declaring its independence and annexing what was left of Arizona and Nevada. Inspired by Utah’s example, fringe groups in Texas declared independence, too, followed shortly thereafter by a group made up of Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana and Wyoming. These efforts all failed and the would-be secessionists have been pushed back to the margins of society. However, martial law still exists in some portions of these states.

The Russo-Mexican Alliance, emboldened by a burgeoning economy built on a foundation of steady drug sales in the U.S. and by the distractions provided by the events described above, declared its intention to take back the state of Texas, lost to Mexico centuries before. Conspiracy buffs had long theorized that UN troops would one day swarm across the Mexican border – they were not far wrong. Russo-Mexican troops advanced rapidly and have, at the time the game begins, taken control of the southern portions of the state. Texas is a genuine warzone with battlelines drawn just north of Austin. Needless to say, many have died in the fighting and anyone attempting to enter Texas from North, East or West is in for trouble.

As a result of all this tumult, America is in a continual state of tension. The borders are guarded by the Armed Forces augmented by UNATCO troops, local police and organized militias. Customs is deadly serious and immigration laws have been tightened dramatically. Nationwide martial law seems imminent.