<DC=255,255,255>
<P><B>President of the United States, Philip Riley Mead</B>
<P>
<P>Exhibit name: President of the United States, Philip Riley Mead
<P>Date of aquisition: 2052
<P>
<P>Notes:
<P>In 2007, Majestic 12 determined that newborn Philip Riley Mead would one day be President of the United States of America. In concert with his parents, they raised him with that in mind (though neither he nor the rest of the world knew anything about Majestic 12’s involvement in his upbringing). His parents died in a tragic but seemingly innocent car crash while young Philip was away at Yale. In fact, they were killed by Majestic 12, to ensure their silence… From that time on, Mead was mentored by a caring professor, a Dr. McTavish (at the time, an officer in the Skull & Bones Society) and his wife, Beth DuClare (an expatriate French businesswoman) – both were, in fact dedicated Illuminati/Majestic 12 leaders.

Being prudent people, and realizing Mead could die or rebel during the years between birth and election, the leaders of Majestic 12 cloned the infant and, in secret, prepared the clones to replace him should anything happen to the original or should the original refuse to follow orders. 

Eventually, the plan became reality and Majestic 12 had Mead, its puppet, in place. For four years, Mead followed Majestic 12 orders faithfully but, as Majestic 12 moved to take overt control of the world, he rebelled, just as they feared he might. Enter the clones…

The President of the United States isn’t by nature a dour man but when you meet him. Mead is not happy about the state of the nation. He’s also not happy about being held prisoner by people he thought were his friends and political allies. He’s especially unhappy that his wife and children are threatened, too.

From Majestic 12’s perspective, Mead is important as both a symbol of the nation’s stability (meaning they’d rather co-opt him than kill him) and as the keeper of a portion of the nuclear “key.” Mead, like his advisors, has an augmentation unlike anyone else’s, a highly secure data-storage module that contains a portion of the code-key that unlocks the nuclear launch mechanism. 

Mead is an intelligent man, a good, compassionate person, but not an inspirational leader. (Many of his colleagues wonder if the situation might not have come to a head if a more charismatic, forceful man had been in office.) Though not perfect, Mead is the kind of guy you want in power – though he may never lead the nation to glory, neither is he likely to lead it too far astray in a vain attempt to secure his place in history.

When Philip Riley Mead was born, Majestic 12 made his parents a deal they couldn’t refuse: Allow them to clone their infant son and, behind the scenes, direct his upbringing in all ways, and the Meads would live the rest of their lives in luxury and see their son become President of the United States; refuse to cooperate and they would live the rest of their very brief lives in pain and torment. Oh, and someone else’s son would become President.

Forty-five years later, the real Philip Riley Mead decided he was powerful enough to rebel against his Majestic 12 handlers and oppose their plan for world domination. He was wrong. They imprisoned him, threatened his wife and children, threatened to activate one of the clones they had created years before, and made immediate plans to remove the secure data-storage module that contains a portion of the code-key that unlocks the nuclear launch mechanism. The new clone president would need that.

And if this Mead clone isn’t up to the job, or rebels like the original, there are others just waiting to step in and do the job.

In appearance, Mead is, well, presidential. Tall, in reasonably good shape, great posture. Smiles a lot. Has hair that’s just graying at the temples. Wears the garb of the professional 21st century politician. Has a penchant for loud ties and socks.
